This is the code to the paper : **NON-PARAMETRIC MACHINE LEARNING APPROACH TO POROSITY PREDICTION: A CASE STUDY OF AN ONSHORE FIELD NIGER DELTA** presented at the NAPE AICE 2022

**ABSTRACT**

Porosity is one of the most essential rock features in reservoir characterization. Many geoscience data sets, such as well log data, have noise and missing values as a result of complex geoscience processes, the dynamism of surface and subsurface operations, or transitory failure in recording instruments. In the assessment of reservoir characteristics, these variables create non-linearity, spatial, and heterogeneity issues. Empirical and traditional approaches have accounted for these issues in the past using reservoir properties to determine reservoir performance over a field life cycle. Although these approaches have played their role, there have also been issues around the underestimation or overestimation of porosity values from geophysical logs, necessitating the development of a new approach. In contrast, machine learning has become a more important transdisciplinary tool in recent years, and it has been integrated into critical geoscience processes to enhance computational efficiency and generate more accurate findings than previous methodologies could deliver. The goal of this research is to find the best technique for estimating reservoir porosity in an onshore field in the Niger Delta using a non-parametric machine learning methodology. The research received two sets of well log data, with one well used to train the models and the other to evaluate them. To increase accuracy, data cleaning and preprocessing procedures for missing values were applied, and noise detection algorithms were used to fit the data. Results from two non-parametric regression models were layered and averaged to produce superior porosity estimations. The correlation coefficient (R), coefficient of determination (R2), and mean absolute error (MAE) are the metrics used to assess the model's performance. A comparison of the anticipated and ground truth porosity values showed a pretty good match between them as the best stack recorded a validation R, R2 and MAE of 91 percent, 82 percent and 3.26, respectively.
**Keywords**: porosity; non-parametric regression; machine learning; reservoir; wireline logs; support vectors, artificial neural networks
